# Project 2 - Crypto-Logic Guessing Game
This project was one of the assignments I completed while in CS230 - Into to Computer Programming. This course was my first time coding and using Python. I think this game is quite fun and you can play for 300 words!
This game presents the player with a scrambled word, and the player must try to guess the real word, one letter at a time. The program also counts the amount of incorrect guesses and maintains a list of correctly guessed letters as you play. 
Starting with the called functions, I will explain how this program works. THe first function is def scramble_word(secret): . This function assigns "secret_copy" to "secret"(retrieved later) inside of a list. Then it shuffles "secret_copy" and returns it for use in the program. This function gets the scramble_word for the player to guess.
The next called function is def get_next_word(wordlist): . In the first line of this function, "choice" is set to a random number 1 through however long the wordlist is, in this case 300. The next line sets "secretword" to whatever word matches the number chosen in "choice", since later in the code each word in the wordlist is put into a list, and the program only needs to go to the line of the "choice" number to choose the word. "secretwordlist" is the third line of this program, which simply put "secretword" into a list, before returning "secretwordlist" in the last line of def get_next_word(wordlist): .
The third called function is def get_word_list(): . This function retrieves the wordlist file and then reads and processes it. The first line tells the program to open the wordlist.txt file and read it ('r'), then assigns what it finds after opening and reading wordlist.txt to "inputFile". The next line "line = inputFile.readline()" takes each readline of the input file and sets it as a variable "line". The third line creates a list ([]) called wordlist. Then a while loop starts, and continues while the length of the lines in the input file are greater than 0, so as long as there is something to read from the file. Then it takes the content of the variable "line" and strips it of any unnecessary symbols or next line indications (/n) with the function .strip(). It also puts the content of "line" in all uppercase letters using the function .upper(). Next line "wordlist.append(line)" appends or adds each "line" to the "wordlist" list. In the last line of the while loop it sets "line" to the readlines of inputFile. The while loop closes and then the function closes the input file, before returning wordlist. 
The last called function is def print_word(word): print("".join(word)). This function only has one line which uses the built in print function and prints "word" using .join(), with the quotation marks showing where the string would be. 
Now that I have covered all of the called functions, I will explain the def main(): function, which is the main operation of the game. By keeping seperate functions outside of the main and calling them, I kept my code cleaner and easier to understand. 
The first two lines of my program I import two functions from random I will need for this game which are randint and shuffle. I open def main(): and print the introduction and instructions for the game, so that the player can read and understand what to do. I set wordlist to the return of the get_word_list() function and I set repeat to True. Setting this repeat variable enables me to set this as the condition for the while loop, and after the player has guessed the word, if they want to play again, "repeat" remains True an the game will continue to loop until the player does not want to play anymore, making "repeat" False and ending the loop. Inside the loop, "incorrectguesses" is set to 0 so that each time a new word starts, the amount of incorrect guesses resets. The next line "secret = get_next_word(wordlist)" calls the function get_next_word(wordlist) and assigns it to the variable "secret", this is the word before it has been scrambled, and then the function scramble_word(secret) is called and set to the variable "scrambled_secret". "scrambled_secret" is the scrambled word that will be shown to the player so they can guess the correct order of the letters. The line "correctguesses = []" creates a new list that will contain letters that the player has guessed in the correct order. "currentletter = 0" sets "currentletter" to 0 so that the program can track the position in the word. 
A second while loop opens inside the main section of the program and it will continue aslong as the length of "correctguesses" is not equal to the length of the "scrambled_secret", so until the player has guessed the entire word. Inside fo this loop, the "scrambled_secret" is printed, which is the scrambled word that the player has to figure out. Then the correctly guessed letters, "correctguesses", are printed so the player can track their progress. Incorrect guesses are also printed. The next line "guess = input("Your guess? ").upper()" contains an input statement, so when the player is asked "Your guess?" the program takes the answer, puts it in uppercase using .upper(), and assigns it to the variable "guess".
An if statement starts with the condition guess == secret[currentletter], which compares "guess" (the player's guessed letter) to the current letter in the secret word. If this condition is true, then the guessed letter is added to the "correctguesses" list using .append() and 1 is added to the current letter, so that the position in the word stays current. If the guess == secret[currentletter] condition is false, "incorrectguesses" increases by 1. The "currentletter" does not increase if the condition is false, because the player needs to guess until they get the correct letter to move on to the next. 
Once the player has guessed the whole word, which ends the condition to the second while loop, the second while loop ends and congratulatory statement is printed along with the secret word. Then the player is asked if they would like to play again and asked to give a Y or N answer for this input. The Y or N answer is put into uppercase using .upper() and an if statement checks the answer. If the player answered "N", the "repeat" variable from the beginning of the def main() function is changed to false, ending the game. When the game has ended the program prints "Thanks for playing!".
